[Music]
Now, Yen will answer the question.
Dear teacher, I have a question and would appreciate your
kind answer: Why does the
merit I gain from practicing and performing
good deeds decrease?  I hope you will kindly
answer my question.  Would the general public
like to know
?
The two words "merit" and "contribution" refer to the
work you do yourself.  That's what you call
hard work.  But it must also stem from one's own virtue
for it to become a truly virtuous act.  Teacher,
do you think that's right?  When I first went to the
temple, I was very respectful to the monks.
Therefore, the first few times you go to the temple, you accumulate a
lot of merit if you
have faith.  But among the monks who have
worked under the guidance of the monks for a
while, there are some who, due to their karmic connections, have gained
knowledge of
these matters in the secular world, and therefore may be
more skilled than the monks.  Is it mainstream?
Therefore, if we develop a disrespectful attitude towards monks,
our merit will decrease.  It's as simple as
that.  Do you all agree?  And
another thing is that monks are not yet saintly monks
.  Therefore, there are still some things that need to be
overlooked.  However, the monks
practice diligently every day so that
this oversight can be transformed day by day.  But
I still accept the monks' mistakes from the
moment I saw this undesirable situation,
and I've always judged them accordingly.   That's
how it's fixed.  Therefore, one's blessings
diminish due to one's own lack of virtue.  Teacher, do
you think that's right?   That
's why the elders used to say, "What do you call a platform near a temple
?"  His current behavior
reflects his lack of reverence for the
monks, a failure to do so as he did initially.
Do they see this correctly?  And another thing is that when
you first go to the temple, you'll be
more enthusiastic, but later you'll become lazier if you're
not someone who knows how to practice.
Sometimes when I go to the temple to do volunteer work, I
end up wandering around
, chatting here and there,
not focusing on the task as I did at the
beginning.  Do the general public see this
happening?   It
's just the number of days, not the number of working days, which is
small.
That means fewer products will be produced.
So, when you
produce a small quantity of products, it means there's dishonesty in your heart
.  Deceitful people will only diminish their blessings further.
Teacher, do you think that's right?
That's dishonesty.  If there's deceit in it,
your blessings will diminish because your virtue will
decrease.  Therefore, when we go to the temple,
we must wholeheartedly maintain
respect for the monks, and every morning we must contemplate the
virtues of the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha
.  Teacher, do you understand?  By
cultivating our own virtues,
we will accumulate more merit in each of
our actions.  I have to make several assumptions
.  If it weren't for the monks, everything
in our house would still be the same today;
nothing could have been reduced.  And
we'll figure out where this karma will lead us.
If my illness is like this, how much will
it get worse, how much will it cost, and
how many side effects will I experience from the medication?  And yet, it
reduced the illness, cured the disease, and even resolved the
karmic consequences.  That's it, if we just keep reciting the virtues and merits
of the monks, it'll be easy to recite.
Do you all agree?  Today I
attended a Dharma class, and if I hadn't heard this lesson,
I would have created negative karma,
and my karma would have become heavier.  Is this
us?  That way, we can
respectfully observe the mourning rituals.  Always maintain a respectful and devoted
attitude towards the funeral.
Since we respect the Sangha, we must
control every word, action, and
deed to ensure they are in accordance with the Dharma.  Make sure it's done in
accordance with the law.  My wife
goes to the temple, but she
might accumulate little merit and
much negative karma.  Buddhist monks become monks to eradicate all
desires.  As a woman, if I
do something in the temple that is not in accordance with the
virtues of a
Buddhist, or if I, as Yen, speak from a more lay perspective, and if I
like the monks and do
things that disturb their peace of mind,
how can my merit be diminished?  Therefore, when visiting a
temple, we must show respect to the monks, and
maintain a certain distance so
that we can truly show our reverence.  Do you think
we're right?  That's right, if
we don't maintain that distance and
our minds become distracted, causing offense
to the monks, it means our minds are violating the
precepts, not to mention whether the other monk might be
disturbed or not.  That is, I initiate
this idea, I make this gesture to
increase the
emotional connection with me.  That means loving me,
or treating me in a certain way, or treating
me in a certain way.  In real life, people use the term "
sounding the alarm" to make the public think it's correct, right?
Then, immediately, my blessings will
diminish because of my lack of virtue, right?  It decreased, as
you can see, right?  Or perhaps, if the
people of the South see the girls
acting a little recklessly, their blessings will
diminish.  Do you all agree?  I see
.  So I can understand why
my merits are decreasing even though I go to the temple.  If I understand it,
I will be able to
correct it, I will be able to transform
that karma of mine.  Whenever my mind is like
that, when I get angry, I realize that my
liking for these monks is due to my karma
.  If I like it that way, then if I see the
monks going this way, I have to go
that way.  Therefore, in the monastery, the monks
were reminded that if they needed to
inform the monks about anything, they should find an older person to
accompany them and ask them to inform the monks on their behalf,
in order to avoid their own karmic consequences.
That applies to those who have made a wish but haven't fulfilled it, right?   The
monks said that they needed to find an
elderly person they trusted and who
possessed the virtue to whom they could
ask for help, so that these individuals could petition the Sangha to
assist them.   This
prevents the increase from being emotionally disturbed.  Teacher, do
you think that's right?  I wasn't
emotionally affected.  That's the first way to do it.  And the
second way is when you see
monks over there and you don't have any
business there.  I was walking when I
saw a tank heading towards me.  I
'll avoid it.  Do you all agree?
I will avoid that path and take a different route so as
not to disturb the
monks.  That's what a true practitioner of Buddhism should do
.  We have to know how to protect ourselves,
right?  Otherwise, you'll see
the monks doing a lot of work
so that they'll appreciate you, love you, and have
affection for you.  That also diminishes one's
blessings.  Are these them?  It is a loss of merit,
not a gain.  If, while
I'm still working, the
monks happen to pass by
, I either greet them or continue
working diligently.  Is that clear to everyone?  so as not to
disturb the monks.  Because, according to
our monastic rules, if
we are working, we shouldn't greet the
monks; if monks pass by, we shouldn't
greet them. So we have to be more focused and absorbed
in our work, rather than trying to distract
ourselves.  Do they see this correctly?
Avoid your own mind.  Therefore, if you know how to
think cleverly, you will create
a lot of blessings for yourself.  But if one doesn't understand the meaning
of their own karma, they will create
many sins for themselves.  Even the elderly commit sins, let
alone the young.  For example, one of the
monks is under 30 years old, but
this elderly person is over 40 and really enjoys coming out
to show the monks.  So, the desire to
perform these acts so that the monks would know about them also
diminishes one's merit.
Do you all agree?  If you've been assigned a task, just
do it.  There.  There.  Let me
show this place to the public so they know
why, even though I started working nearby,
my blessings increased.  Because at first
I was afraid of the monks, I was respectful, my
words and speech were respectful, and I didn't
approach them
unnecessarily.  But because I'm used to living in the temple
, I tend to
approach the monks even when it's not necessary
.  Teacher, do you think that's right?  That's
what will hinder your own spiritual practice
.  So, that's
how Yen will answer the question.
[music]